---
templateKey: blog-post
path: /react-native-tutorial/drawer-navigation-with-react-navigation
series: /react-native-tutorial
cover: /img/products-grid1.jpg
title: Mobx Store
date: 2017-01-04T15:04:10.000Z
description: In this tutorial, .
category: home-made
tags:
    - programming
    - react-native
    - testing
hashtags:
    - mobx
    - testing
    - state-management
---
There are several state management libraries out there, most popular of them are Redux, MobX, and Saga. 

https://bitbucket.org/abc110/reactnative-poc/commits/all 



npm install --save mobx mobx-react mobx-state-tree

Since we'll be using decorators, we also need to add the "transform-decorators-legacy" plugin in .babelrc
"plugins": ["transform-decorators-legacy"],



Now make a change in "src/views/author/store.js". 

[jest test mobx-store](img/react-native/jest-mobx-store-test.png)

Press "a",

[jest run all tests](img/react-native/jest-mobx-store-test-2.png)

Now if you want to run tests for just the books module, press "p" followed by "book". Jest will filter the tests based on regex pattern on the file paths and list the files matching the pattern. Hit "Enter" to run all the tests in this file.

[jest test pattern-matching](img/react-native/jest-mobx-store-test-pattern-matching.png.png)

Similarly, you can run tests based on test name pattern matching. For instance, press "p" followed by "book".

[jest run all tests](img/react-native/jest-mobx-store-test-pattern-matching.png-2.png)

Now, we'll need the api to call so we'll move the mock api we created for our tests to a new file, and import it in the test. Rather than referencing that api in all our views and components, we'll make it the default api in our store. That way, once we have the real api ready, we just have to fix the api file reference in the store.

It is important to note that since we're building a small demo app, mocking our api this way is okay, but in a bigger project, we would use proper mocking. Jest provides good mocking capabilities, or you can use an external mocking and spying framework such as sinon. For making http calls to a Restful API, I like to use axios, along with its mocking companion, Moxios.
Author List View
The top level component should be a stateful component, so let's do that

Book List View
The only thing different in the three tabs, namely "All Books", "Fiction Books", "NonFiction Books", is the data that they'll display. The layout and format of the items would be the same. And since Mobx allows us to keep our data completely separate from the view. So we can get rid of the three separate views, and have the three tabs displayed using a single stateless component, with different data sets sent via props.

Let's also add a test for the setFilter

  render() {
    const { filter } = this.props
    this.store.setFilter(filter)
    return <BookList books={this.store.filteredBooks} />
  }

  render() {
    const { filter } = this.props
    return <BookList books={this.store.booksByGenre(filter)} />
  }

but I find setFilter() more expressive and explicit.

I've refactored our codebase a bit. I've `moved all-books.js`, `fiction-books.js`, `non-fiction-books.js` into the tabs folder. I've also moved BookList and Book into separate files, to better prepare ourselves for the changes to come. Our BookList and Book components will grow in size as we'll be adding a UI Framework to make our views look pretty. This brings me to two important practices, small component size and code refactor.

It's important to note that refactoring should be a major part of the development workflow. We should continuously refactor our code to prepare ourselves for future changes and challenges. This greatly impacts the development productivity in the long run. 

Our store could also be moved into a separate directory, but since our app is quite small, we don't need to do that.
