---
templateKey: blog-post
path: /react-native-tutorial/drawer-navigation-tabs-with-react-navigation
series: /react-native-tutorial
cover: /img/products-grid1.jpg
title: Drawer and Tabs Navigation using react-navigation
date: 2017-01-04T15:04:10.000Z
description: In this tutorial, we'll add Drawer and Tabs Navigation using react-navigation.
category: home-made
tags:
    - programming
    - react-native
    - testing
hashtags:
    - programming
    - testing
---
Our app will contain a navigation drawer with two menu options, the first option would be for the BookView, containing the list of books. The other option would be for the AuthorView, containing the list of authors. For navigation between the different views, we'll use React Navigation. So let's install it:
npm install --save react-navigation

Open App.js, and make the following changes:
1. Rename the default export 
2. Add two react stateless components for our screens, for the BookView and AuthorView respectively
3. Add stateless components for our DrawerComponent. This component will render the Drawer content, along with the menu options (Books and Authors) inside <DrawerItems> imported from react-navigation
4. Use the DrawerNavigator from react-navigation to implement the Drawer Navigation
5. Add relevant styles

Here's a diff of our latest changes:
github.com/qaiser110/react-native-mobx-starter/commit/7ebb2b5a5d8448e7fd75d6c72a66c1c7f09232b1

And after making the above changes, here's what our UI looks like when before and after we click on the "Open Drawer" button

[drawer-tabs-react-navigation.png](img/react-native/drawer-tabs-react-navigation.png)  

Directory Structure
It's important to think about your application and how you'll structure of your files and resources in the beginning of the project. While there could be several ways of structuring your application code, I prefer co-locating files and tests using a feature-based architecture. Co-locating files related to a particular feature or module has several benefits.

Let's create a src directory, where we'll keep all our source files, and inside it, create two directories, one for the book view, named "book", and the other for the author view, named "author". 

Create index.js files within each of the two directories we just added. These files will export the components for each of our views. Move the code from App.js for the BookView and AuthorView components into these files, and import them instead.

Our app should still work as it was before the refactor. Here's a file diff of our recent changes:
github.com/qaiser110/react-native-mobx-starter/commit/99fbd537de1cefc3723b79fe25394063abe62a3c

Each of the screen will have a title, which means that we'd be duplicating the same code along with the styles. To keep our code DRY, let's move the title to a separate file "src/components/Title.js", and reuse it where needed. We'll also move the main views into a new parent directory "src/views" to keep them separate from other components.

Here's a file diff of our recent changes:
github.com/qaiser110/react-native-mobx-starter/commit/578f9bbcd2e946ca52e579c160aa17b0917947d8

Tab Navigation
We need two tabs in the books view to show the fiction and non-fiction books. Let's use the TabNavigator from react-navigation to implement the Drawer Navigation.

With those changes we have our apps navigations all done. We can open the main drawer from all screens and tabs. We can also switch tabs by clicking on tabs or by clicking on the buttons we added in each tab view. 

github.com/qaiser110/react-native-mobx-starter/commit/7e5ef8c6dd12c64b9721a4e17050ed9c60c835c6
Stack Navigation
We'll need a top bar on Author View and Book View, and a menu icon to open the drawer. So for both the views, instead of returning a ReactNative View, we'll return a StackNavigator instead.

All Books View and books data

We'll need data
a view for displaying a list of all books

I've also removed all the content from the book tabs, since we'll be adding the actual content there shortly.
